Team Fortress Arcade
By Eric Ruth Games

Version 1 - The big 9/29 release!
Version 2 - The 9/29 bug fix re-release!  Fixed Demoman damage, camera scrolling issues,
            boss problems, players stuck in walls, freezebot issues.
Version 3 - Fixed a HUGE bug with wall collision, and the Heavy boss not dieing.
Version 4 - A few minor things cleaned up.
Version 5 - 9/30 More updates, including Sniper stuck in wall bugs, and freezebot problems.




Summary:

Team Fortress Arcade is a lovingly created video game mash-up between
Valve's Team Fortress 2 franchise, and the almost forgotten side
scrolling beat-em-up genre.  In this game, up to four players can take
the roll of the famous BLU Team Fortress classes as they battle through
armies of maniacal robot forces and come face to face with their RED
boss counterparts.  After traversing 9 original stages, the players
must conquer a final boss fight featuring legends of another Valve
franchise!





Controls:

Player 1

  Up     W
  Down   S
  Left   A
  Right  D
  Shoot  H
  Jump   U

Player 2

  Up     Up
  Down   Down
  Left   Left
  Right  Right
  Shoot  Z
  Jump   X

Player 3

  Up     I
  Down   K
  Left   J
  Right  L
  Shoot  O
  Jump   P

Player 4

  Up     numpad8
  Down   numpad2
  Left   numpad4
  Right  numpad6
  Shoot  numpad1
  Jump   numpad3



Press both buttons together at once for a melee attack!

Enter to Start/Pause

F4 toggles between Full Screen and Windowed.

*NOTE* If you are playing this on a lap top that does NOT
have a numpad, the 4th player will not work.  You CAN,
however, plug in a USB keyboard or a USB numpad to remedy
the problem.






Unique Character Abilities:

Scout: Can double jump by pressing "jump" again when in the air.

Soldier: Can rocket jump if you press "attack" right after pressing "jump."

Pyro: Flamethrower and flare gun do afterburn damage to enemies.

Demoman: Fires sticky bombs at the ground when you press "attack" in the air.
Jump again to ignite them.  You can sticky jump by being on top of the sticky
bombs when you jump.

Engineer: Hit your sentry once to make it a level 2 sentry.
Hit it again to make it level 3.

Medic: you can control the height of your jump by holding down the "jump" button
longer.

Sniper: Hold your "attack" button to charge your sniper rifle.  A fully charged
shot blows through multiple enemies.

Spy: Hold the "attack" button to cloak and become invisible to on-screen enemies.







Frequently Asked Questions:

Q: Is this a standalone PC game or rom of some kind?

A: This title is a standalone PC game.  It comes as an .exe
file with no installation neccessary.  Jus double click and
play.


Q: Why is this only 4 player and not 9 player?

A: In the 1990's, Arcade beat-em-up games typically had only
4 player co-op.  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Captain
Commando, Captain America, The Simpsons, and most X-Men arcade
cabinets only utilized 4 player.  It was a standard of the time
and as such, was recreated here.


Q: Is there no online play?

A: Not yet, no.  I WILL be looking into it for an update since it
is a request I get frequently.  I promise you that its on my "to-
do list."


Q: No HATS!?

A: There are a couple nods to the hats of the series, but no,
there will be no customizable character sprites...including hats.


Q: Will there be no player versus mode?

A: I will guage how the game is recieved post-release and think
about it for an update, but most likely,it probably will not happen.


Q: Are Valve gonna sue you?

A: God, I hope not.  But I've been informed that they know about
this project and have yet to contact me in any way...positively
or negatively.  So, no cease and desist yet.


Q: What happens if I find a bug/problem?

A: I will happily take bug reports!  Send me an e-mail to:
ericdavidruth@gmail.com with information about where the bug
happened, on what stage and with what characters/objects.  I've put
a lot of time in to trying to make the game as "perfect" as possible,
but I'm just human and frankly, I'm not that great a programmer.  I
will address the issue and release updates as needed.


Q: Can I contact you if I have questions about the game?

A: yes, you can, but PLEASE read this "read me" first to make sure
your questions are not answered somewhere within its text.  If you
can't find the answer, then yes, go ahead and contact me.






Soundtrack:

I use Reason 4 to compose all of my arcadey music.  The Title theme,
Victory song, Select music, and Game Over theme were all composed to
sound similar to their original counterparts.  The stage songs
are original compositions writen and tracked by Eric Ruth (as DJ Potatoe)






System Requirements:

Windows ME/2000 or higher
Direct X 7 or higher


"Team Fortress Arcade" was created by Eric Ruth
in 3 months using Yo Yo Games' Game Maker 8 Pro.

www.ericruthgames.com

ericdavidruth@gmail.com







Special Thanks:
Valve
Piki Geek
Jordan Millner
Matt Moriarty
John Moriarty
Mike Dixon
Chris Baldwin
Chris Ratliff
Innovate Baltimore
MAGfest
Ben Walsh
Tina Tyndal
David Croach
David Riley
Michael Mullen
Joystiq.com
Kotaku.com
& all of the blogs who mentioned/promoted my work!